---
title: Auto-schema & query
sidebar_position: 2
image: og/docs/quickstart-tutorial.jpg
# tags: ['basics']
---
import Badges from '/_includes/badges.mdx';

<Badges/>

Here, we will show you the fastest and easiest way to populate a Weaviate instance, before breaking these processes into more detail in subsequent sections.

## Prerequisites 

At this point, you should have: 
- Weaviate running on the [Weaviate Cloud Service](https://console.weaviate.io),
- An API key for your preferred inference API, such as OpenAI, Cohere or Hugging Face, and
- Installed the appropriate client library in a language of your choice. 

If you have not done this, [go back](./installation.md) to set up your Weaviate instance and client library first and come back :).

Now, download the dataset below to your working directory and let's get going building our first Weaviate database.

<p>
  <DownloadButton link="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/weaviate/weaviate-examples/main/jeopardy_small_dataset/jeopardy_tiny.json">Download jeopardy_tiny.json</DownloadButton>
</p>

## Import data 

We will now import this data into Weaviate. 

For this, we will use inference API module so that Weaviate takes care of the vectorization. What we need to then is to:

- Specify the vectorizer module (e.g. `text2vec-openai`)
- Provide an API key
- Load & import data into Weaviate

First, We will define the class of `Question` objects, including telling Weaviate what vectorizer to use. The class definition looks like the following:

```json
{
    "class": "Question",
    "vectorizer": "text2vec-openai"  // Or "text2vec-cohere" or "text2vec-huggingface"
}
```

:::info Inference API and key
If you are using a different module, replace the module name (e.g. `text2vec-openai`) and the key header name in the code examples to suit your preferred module. 

Also replace the API key with your own API key. 
:::


The rest of the schema can be auto-generated by Weaviate based on the data. The following code will take care of everything from schema definition to data import:

import CodeAutoschemaImport from '/_includes/code/getting.started.autoschema.import.mdx'

<CodeAutoschemaImport />

### Confirm schema creation

Navigate here to check the Weaviate schema:

```
https://some-endpoint.weaviate.network/v1/schema
```

You should see:

```json
{
    "classes": [
        {
            "class": "Question",
            ...  // lots of additional information here
            "vectorizer": "text2vec-openai"
        }
    ]
}
```

### Confirm import

Navigate here to check that objects have been imported:

```
https://some-endpoint.weaviate.network/v1/objects
```

You should see:

```json
{
    "deprecations": null,
    "objects": [
        ...  // Details of each object
    ],
    "totalResults": 10  // You should see 10 results here
}
```

If you see those results, where the schema includes the `Question` class, and `10` total objects, everything is good to go. Let's start to query our database!

:::warning
TODO - add code to import data in all non-Python sections

note: cURL - see if we can pipe the JSON to cURL for simplicity
:::

## Query Weaviate

Now that we've added data objects to our Weaviate instance, let's start to query it to see how we can get them back. 

We will start with some basic queries:

### nearText query

One of the most common use case is text similarity search. You can use Weaviate's `nearText` parameter for this purpose. 

If you wanted to find entries which related to famous scientists, you can apply this parameter to the `Get` function like so:

import CodeAutoschemaNeartext from '/_includes/code/getting.started.autoschema.neartext.mdx'

<CodeAutoschemaNeartext />

You should see something like:

```json
{
    "data": {
        "Get": {
            "Question": [
                {
                    "answer": "Albert Einstein",
                    "question": "His 1905 paper \"On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies\" contained his special Theory of Relativity"
                },
                {
                    "answer": "hot air balloons",
                    "question": "These in the skies of Albuquerque on October 3, 1999 were a fine example of Charles' Law in action"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

Note that neither of 'famous' or 'scientist' occur anywhere, but Weaviate has returned the entry on Einstein as the closest result. The second closest result is also related to the query, as it relates to Charles' Law (named after scientist Jacques Charles).

Try it out yourself with different strings, by changing the string from "famous scientist". 

## Next

- [Manually specify a schema](./schema.md).

## More Resources

import DocsMoreResources from '/_includes/more-resources-docs.md';

<DocsMoreResources />
