looks for objects that contain the search terms in their properties according to the selected [tokenization](../config-refs/schema/index.md#property-tokenization). The results are scored according to the [BM25F](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okapi_BM25) function, and thus a keyword search is also called the `bm25` search in Weaviate. It is also


This example uses default settings to look for objects containing the keyword `food` anywhere in the object.

It ranks the results using BM25F, and returns the top 3.

For additional details, see the [BM25 API Reference](../api/graphql/search-operators.md#bm25)


You can combine `autocut` with `limit: N` to limit the size of the autocut groups to the first `N` objects.

### Limiting the number of results

Use the `limit` argument to specify the maximum number of results that should be returned:


Weaviate can also limit results based on discontinuities in the result set. In the legacy client, this filter is called `autocut`. The filter is called `auto_limit` in the new client.

The [filter](../api/graphql/additional-operators.md#autocut) looks for discontinuities, or jumps, in the result [score](#score--explainscore). In your query, you specify how many jumps there should be. The query stops returning results after the specified number of jumps.

For example, consider a `bm25` that returns these distances `[2.676, 2.021, 2.022, 1.854, 1.856, 1.713]`. There is a significant break between 2.676 and 2.021. There is another significant break between 2.022 and 1.854. Autocut uses the number of breaks to return data groups.

- `autocut: 1` returns one object, `[2.676]`.
- `autocut: 2` returns three objects, `[2.676, 2.021, 2.022]`.
- `autocut: 3` returns all objects, `[2.676, 2.021, 2.022, 1.854, 1.856, 1.713]`.

Autocut can be used as follows:



The filter parses the outputs but does not impact the ranking.

These examples perform a BM25 search for `food` in any field. The search filters on objects that have the `round` property set to `Double Jeopardy!`.

To filter with one of the legacy clients, use `with_where`. The new Python client uses the `Filter` class from `weaviate.classes`.