---
layout: layout-documentation
solution: contributor-guide
sub-menu: Getting Started
title: Suggesting Enhancements 
tags: ['contributor-guide']
menu-order: 2
open-graph-type: article
og-img: documentation.jpg
toc: true
---

Have any suggestions in mind? We’d love to hear your ideas!

We include some guidelines below for suggesting enhancements. These guidelines are designed to make it easier for the maintainers and the community to understand your proposal, which will make it more likely to be adopted.

## How to suggest enhancements

Enhancement suggestions are tracked as [GitHub issues](https://github.com/semi-technologies/weaviate/issues). Check first for a duplicate WIP (work in progress) issue. If not, create an issue in the GitHub repository and provide the following information:

* **Use a clear and descriptive title** for the issue.
* Give a **step-by-step description** of the suggested improvement with as many specifics as you can.
* **Add specific examples** to demonstrate the steps. If possible, include code snippets in Markdown format.
* **Describe the current behavior** and then **explain which behavior you were expecting and why**.
* **Include images, animated GIFs, or video links** that can be used to illustrate the steps or highlight the area of Weaviate that the suggestion relates to.
* **Explain why this change would be useful** to Weaviate users.
* Specify which **version of Weaviate** you're using. Check the version in your `docker-compose.yml` file.

## Working on your own suggestion

If you would like, you can implement your own suggestion as well. If you have any questions, feel free to reach out to us and the wider community on [Slack](https://weaviate.slack.com/).

## Setting up your development environment

Follow the below steps to set up your local environment for development on Weaviate.

You will need:

* Go
* Docker
* Docker compose

In order to run a local development environment:

Start up all dependencies (e.g. modules inference containers) and compile/run Weaviate locally. For example, the below command will run Weaviate with a contextionary vectorizer:

**Default setup (contextionary module)**

```
tools/dev/restart_dev_environment.sh && ./tools/dev/run_dev_server.sh
```

You can also run with different modules, e.g.:

**Transformers t2v only**

```
tools/dev/restart_dev_environment.sh --transformers && ./tools/dev/run_dev_server.sh local-transformers
```

**Contextionary t2v & Transformers QnA**

```
tools/dev/restart_dev_environment.sh --qna && ./tools/dev/run_dev_server.sh local-qna
```

## Background reading
If you haven't yet, we suggest going through the [getting started guide](/developers/weaviate/current/getting-started/quick-start.html).

### Folder Structure
To get a better understanding of the Weaviate Core's code structure, check out the [autogenerated folder structure](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/semi-technologies/weaviate){:target="_blank"}.

### Modules
Modules are a big part of Weaviate and its functionalities. You can read more about them below:

* [Overview and High-Level Architecture](../weaviate-module-system/overview.html)
* [Code-Level Architecture](../weaviate-module-system/architecture.html)

### Queries
* You can use the [SeMI GraphQL console](https://console.semi.technology/) to make queries.

### Spinning up Weaviate
There are multiple ways to set up a Weaviate instance. For a testing setup, we recommend you use docker-compose. Cloud deployment can be used for small and larger projects. For production setup and/or large scale projects, we encourage you to use Kubernetes.

## Additional References

We recommend that you read through these guides, which will provide you with a clear understanding of Weaviate's code structure and style, CI/CD philosophy. These will assist you in making more feature-rich recommendations.

* [Code structure and style](../weaviate-core/structure.html)
* [CI/CD Philosophy](../weaviate-core/cicd.html)
* [Test philosophy of Weaviate](../weaviate-core/tests.html)
